My name is Kelly Kazem.
I'd like to welcome you this morning
to Designing Reusable Components.
I'll have to get used to this thing.
How many people here are currently
building WebObjects applications?
Wow, that's cool.
This session was really designed for you
to give you some practical techniques
and ideas for better leveraging
the power of reusable components.
How many people here are using Java as
their primary development language?
How about Objective C?
Any web script?
A few?
Okay.
Well, all the examples that we're
going to go through in this
session are based on Java,
but for those of you that
are Objective-C programmers,
I want to make sure that you understand
that everything we talk about is
applicable to all of the programming
languages that we're going to talk about.
The topics we're going to go through,
we're going to start with a
basic architecture overview,
talk about how you take
reusable components and
package them in the frameworks,
show you how to put those on palettes,
talk about component
synchronization in depth,
some state ideas for managing
state between components,
a cool demo on dynamic
reusable components,
low component content.
Then we're going to finish up with some
performance debugging and design ideas.
So to start this thing off,
we're going to do kind of
the three amigos thing.
It's going to be myself and two of
my associates doing the presentation,
starting with Scott Sweet,
who's going to go into reusable
component architecture and show you how
to put your components on the palettes
and create frameworks out of them.
Scott?
Thank you.
It's interesting because I just
came from Louisiana and with
everybody here from international,
I was there for about a week
and a half and I started talking
really funny because I started
sounding like them from Louisiana.
And then I come here and everybody's
international in our engineering group.
So if you can imagine all the different
languages and people talking different
languages all in one sentence,
it would be rather interesting.
I can't do it.
I'm not going to try.
But anyways, with that,
one of the things about reusable
components and many of you
probably are aware of it.
First, most important is reusability.
Obviously, that's the whole point.
But one of the things to think about
is your ability to organize those
components not only within an application
but across multiple applications,
across an enterprise.
And these are one of
the beautiful things.
And as you go through the session today,
you're going to learn some bits and
bytes about the advantages and how
to make sure you use design issues.
Along those things.
The other thing that's really
good is rapid development.
I'm going to go through an example and
build some really simple components.
But the idea here is once you
create a group of components,
frameworks of components,
now when you start creating
very complex applications,
say like a login screen
and these kinds of things,
you can put a lot of
functionality into those,
just drag that into your application and
not have to spend a lot of time coding,
debugging, testing, etc.
So let's talk about the architecture.
One of the things that's important
to understand about a component
is it can be a piece of a page
or it can be the entire page.
So if we look on the right hand side,
I'm showing the parent
component as being a full page,
but inside of that we have things like
header components and footer components.
And keep in mind, our original baseline
element is dynamic elements,
right?
And so with reusable components,
what we're doing is taking
these dynamic elements,
grouping them together,
and creating complex functionality.
So the header and the footer,
for example,
would be things like menu bar and
background color and your time and your
date and all those kinds of things that
might be common across a lot of your
single application or your enterprise.
But then inside of that query component
is where you're going to get a lot
of different kinds of elements.
So you're going to get a lot of
different kinds of things that may
be used across your application or
specific to a particular developer
and what they're using them for.
So the next question is,
what's the process?
How do you do this?
And the first thing and
most important thing,
this is really very important,
build and test your component
in your application.
Don't start with the component,
put all these components
into your application,
you have all these bugs,
and now you've got to figure
out where it's coming from.
So start in the application, build it,
test it,
make sure that it actually works,
and then move it into a
component environment.
So then you make it a reusable component.
Again, test it again.
Make sure you build a little simple app,
bring that component in, wire it up,
make sure it actually
works as a component,
and I will do that in the
demo in a few minutes.
Finally, put this into a framework.
This is where you're going
to really get your power,
because now what happens is you'll
have a framework with lots of objects,
and these reusable components
now in that framework can be
shared among all the developers.
Either among your
friends or what have you,
across your application and so on.
The next step would be to palletize them.
Now with the palletizing,
there's a couple advantages here.
Palletizing your components.
[Transcript missing]
and then finally you're going to go
across multiple applications and this
is an iterative process clearly you're
not going to do this just only once as
you build your application you're going
to find places of reuse break them out
as a component put it into a framework
So once you have,
this is giving you an idea
here of a reusable component,
the top three parts should look
really familiar to you since you've
been through several sessions here.
The one thing that's different about a
reusable component is the very bottom,
which is the API file.
And this is how you actually expose
a particular object or a particular
variable to the outside world that
you're going to use for binding,
and we're going to look
at that a little later.
One of the very important things about
the components is your synchronization.
Kelly is going to spend a
great deal of time about this,
but one of the things that is important
is that WebObjects is automatically
synchronizing your parent to your child.
So when you're using a
component at the child level,
under the covers,
WebObjects is automatically
taking care of that for you.
And Kelly is going to get into a
lot of detail of actually some of
the advantages and disadvantages
of automatic synchronization as
well as manual synchronization.
Here's some code here just to
give you an idea of communicating
back up to the parent.
One of the things that's neat
about WebObjects is our ability to
get your information at the child
level via the parent rather than
actually having to have an instance
variable at the child level.
Again, parent-child communication here.
This is the way you would
actually traverse that and be
able to get that information.
Okay, so let's go ahead and ship to,
switch to machine three,
my Windows machine.
What I'm going to do is real quickly
create a very basic application.
Now one of the first things that
I want to do here is I've got a
data mile settling over here and I'm
just going to go ahead and add that.
You guys probably know
how to do that already.
We've seen that through several
of the sessions already.
Okay, so I have my data model.
I want to do this real simple,
quick stuff.
Let's go ahead and create a form.
Inside that form, let's go ahead and
create a little text box.
Let's go ahead and add
a submit button there.
Next thing I want to do is go
ahead and add a display group.
Let's go ahead and take that display
group and wire it up to my entity.
And now what I'm going to do is go
ahead and wire up my display group up to
these two objects that I have up there.
So the first one I want to do is
I'm going to do a search screen,
and I'm going to search on company name.
And the second thing I'm going
to go ahead and do is take my
submit button and I'm going to put
that on my qualified data source.
Alright, so I have my search screen now.
Next thing I want to do is go ahead
and bring in a reusable component
that we give you out of the box,
which is the direct-to-web stuff.
So let's go ahead and add that in there.
We're going to go ahead and wire this up.
And what I'm interested in looking
at in the display group is an
attribute called Company Name.
And I'm going to go ahead and define
save that.
Okay, so let's just go ahead
and start with this.
We're gonna go ahead and compile.
So while we're doing that,
one of the things is that--one that you
wanna check out is we gave you a lot of
reusable components right out of the box.
I didn't go through all the
palettes up here but those of
you who are new to WebObjects,
in version 4.5, we've added a lot of new
stuff in the WoE extensions.
Also the JavaScript stuff
that I know that you folks
saw--I think it was yesterday.
So check it out.
Go in there,
go into the examples and see what's
in there so you get an idea of some of
the things that we're actually giving
you right out of the box so you don't
go off and build them on your own.
Okay, so we're going to bring
up the application now.
Really simple,
it's nothing really advanced.
Basically, I have a search screen.
It's accessing my database.
The direct-to-web component
is going to display those
values for me on the screen.
Okay, so just to see here,
I'm going to go ahead and do a query
to see that it's working properly.
Okay, so we've got our basic app.
Now what I want to do is turn that
search screen into a reusable component.
So that's going to be my second step.
So I'm going to go ahead
into my application here.
I'm going to call this
thing Simple Search.
I'm going to go ahead and open this up.
First step,
one of the most important things in
doing this is make sure you create
this component as a partial document.
This gets rid of the body
tags and the head tags.
And the idea here is when a component,
you've got to think about what am
I dragging this into on my HTML page.
And typically those
tags are already there.
So making it a partial document
will take care of that.
Second thing is,
I'm just going to go ahead and
take this from my original.
Let's go ahead and get rid of it there.
Put it in my new component.
Now one of the things I'm going to
do is here I notice I have my display
group is specific to the application.
Well I want to make a generic one.
Let's just call it MyDG.
And now I'm going to go ahead and
modify each of these bindings to
be specific to this display group.
So that's the second step.
So I've got this bound
up to my component.
Now the third step is exposing what I'm
interested in for binding purposes when
I include this into another component.
So the API editor is something
that's new in version 4.5.
And one of the things that's really
cool here is it just brings up all
the different variables you'd see
down here up into the API editor.
So I'm going to go ahead and
make my display group required.
If I go click on the validation tag,
one of the things that's real
interesting is you can go in here and
make business rules that are going
to be associated with validation.
and then we click on the display
here what I want to do is go ahead
and put a icon what I want to use
when I actually use this component
Let's go ahead and save that.
Okay, finally now what I want to do is
take that reusable component and
put it into my first application.
And we see here right away that
that component is already appearing.
We'll go ahead and add that.
Let's go ahead and wire that up.
This is the binding that
I exposed with the API editor.
And let's go ahead and rebuild our app.
I do need to recompile because
I added a new component.
I also added the new display group.
So I will have to
actually recompile this.
And now we have the same
exact application now using
my reusable component.
Okay, let's go back to the display now.
Our presentation.
Thank you.
Okay, so the next step is how do
I set this up so that I can
actually do reusability with it.
So what we want to do is we've gone
through the step of actually debugging
these at the application level.
We're now going to put
it into a framework.
We're going to do that
in a couple of minutes.
One of the important things
with the framework is to do
a step called make install.
Okay, so there's one part of actually
making the actual framework
itself for compiling purposes,
but then you have to install it into
the directory that WebObjects uses when
the application is actually running.
And so we'll actually
take a look at that.
And then of course we can
palletize them if we want to.
So a couple of key things for, again,
for palletizing.
You know, create custom pallets that are
multiple ones for different developers.
You know,
sometimes in your environment when
you're doing team development,
you're going to have different
kinds of developers who have
different levels of expertise,
and so you can use pallets
as a means to break those up.
So you can do that according
to your skill sets.
The other thing is,
It also really helps
you to organize things.
You can create multiple
palettes based on organization.
And one of the things that's really
nice you'll see here is using those
custom images that will show up.
So rather than it just being a picture
of a component and the name of it,
you can put a picture on it and
use your graphic artist expertise
there to help you along those lines.
Okay, so let's go ahead and
go through that step.
So what I'm interested in
actually doing at this point,
let's clean this up a little bit.
So I want to create a brand new project
that's actually for a framework.
So let's go over here
into our project builder.
And this is the drop down to
allow you to pick and choose.
So when you actually create a framework,
you'll see that one of the
options down here on the bottom
is WebObjects Framework as
opposed to WebObjects Application.
And we're going to go
ahead and put this in here.
We're going to call this Reuse Framework.
Okay.
So now when we do the framework step,
It's pretty simple, easy stuff.
So what we're looking for
are three basic files.
First thing we want to do is actually
pick up the Java class that's
associated with the reusable component.
And that's this one right here.
Let's just go ahead and
drag that into my framework.
The second thing that we want to do is
actually bring in the component itself.
So let's drag the component in.
And the third thing that we
need to have is the API file.
Once we have that done,
we have our basic framework,
we're going to go ahead
and bring up the build.
Remember I talked about you can
compile the framework itself or
you can actually do the install.
And this little tag here is where
you actually would see that.
This is the checkbox.
So we're going to go
ahead and do install.
One of the things that we'll do is both
the compile and the install for us.
Okay,
so basically I've built the framework.
Now it's gone ahead and actually
installed it into a directory that
we're going to use in a second.
So now that's that step right there.
The next thing that we need to do
is put this thing onto a palette
so that we can actually reuse it.
So I have a palette sitting over here.
Let's go ahead and make
my palette editable.
And I want to go ahead and bring in that
component and put it onto my palette.
So, in the file system here,
The default directory that
Apple wants to go look in is
Apple Local Library Frameworks.
That's where it by default
will install your frameworks
when you actually make them.
Now you do have the option
if you wish to change that,
have multiple locations and so on.
and inside of here we have our
component sitting here that
we want to go ahead and use.
Let's just go ahead and drag that on.
So we have that in our palette now.
And down below I have
a logo that I've built,
and we'll drag that on.
Let's go ahead and save our palette.
and make it read only.
So now we actually have our component
on a palette that I can reuse that's
actually referencing my framework now.
And let's just to make sure that
this thing is actually working.
We're going to come down here and
I have an application called Final.
And I've already kind of pre-built
a lot of stuff here so we don't
have to repeat everything.
Let's go ahead and bring up Main.
and we see I have some of
the things already wired up.
And let's just drag my
component in off my palette.
And one of the things you'll notice
here is it's adding the framework.
And I'm going to take a look at the
project in a minute to understand that.
But one of the things that will
happen is if the framework that
the component is referencing
is not already in your project,
it will add it for you.
And we go ahead and wire
this up and save it.
We'll go back to our project.
And one thing,
I'll go ahead and bring up the inspector.
Inside of here,
there's an option under Project Builder
called Framework Search Order.
And by default,
if you go in and look in your project,
you will not see this there.
So it's important that if
you're going to do that,
be sure you go in and add that
default directory so that it
can reference it properly.
Okay.
Let's go ahead and compile our app.
We have the same component now running
as a reusable component from a framework.
Okay?
It worked!
That's cool!
Okay, what I'd like to do now is
to go a little bit deeper,
is bring Kelly back up to go into
the inter-component synchronization.
Thanks, Scott.
Okay, so component synchronization.
Why is it important?
It's important because if you're going
to create very complex components
or deeply nested components,
component synchronization plays a big
part in how efficient those components
are going to execute at runtime.
Obviously, you want to build very
scalable apps that run fast,
and prior to WebObjects 4.0,
the framework wasn't really optimized
for very deeply nested components,
and they added some support for
that to make it a lot better in 4.0.
So basically there's two
methods of synchronization.
There's automatic synchronization,
which you're used to now.
WebObjects performs
synchronization automatically
between the parent and the child.
There's nothing you really have
to do to implement that other
than declare your bindings.
However, under certain circumstances,
you could run into some performance
issues if you have lots of bindings
and deeply nested components.
The other type of synchronization
is called manual synchronization.
This is effectively where you
disable the automatic synchronization
that WebObjects will do.
However,
you're going to have to do a little
bit more work to decide when you
want to perform the synchronization
and which variables you want to
perform the synchronization on.
And it gives you just basically
more control over how it's happened.
So if we look at
automatic synchronization,
basically the WebObjects framework
will attempt to synchronize bindings
between parent and child components
up to six times for a given iteration
of the request response loop.
So this can really add up to
quite a bit of overhead if you
have lots of components and
lots of bindings per component.
The other issue you run into is
since you don't have control over
when these synchronizations occur,
if you have any kind of application
logic in your accessor methods,
those are likely to be executed
redundantly multiple times,
and that may be something you don't want.
So if we look at an example here,
basically there's kind of three things
this example wants to point out to you.
And one is the fact that it's possible to
Pass-in Null Values from
the Parent to the Child.
Textbox in the parent component,
and you didn't enter any text into that,
and you submitted.
A null value may get synchronized
into the child component,
and then when you go to
execute some logic on that,
you're going to get a runtime exception.
I've actually seen deployed
apps where that wasn't caught,
because they never tested it that way.
The other two things that
this shows is the fact that
logic in the child component,
and actually what we see here
is that child component is like
a beautify string component,
so all it does is that a string
gets passed in from the parent,
and what it'll do is attempt
to beautify it for you.
But what'll happen is that logic
to beautify the component will be
executed multiple times redundantly,
so that's something that of course is
going to cause some unwanted overhead.
And the third thing is the fact that...
since the synchronization is two-way,
that once the child component
beautifies the string,
it's going to pass it back
into the parent component,
and that may be an unwanted side effect.
So the first fix is to
basically check for null values.
If you're going to perform some
method or operation on the instance
variable in the child component
after the synchronization occurs,
you definitely want to check for null
so you don't get runtime exceptions.
Then to fix the other two issues,
we want to do what's called
disable synchronization.
That's fairly simple to do.
What you do is you overwrite a
method in your child component.
It's in white text there.
It synchronizes variables with
bindings and have that return false.
That automatically tells the framework,
the WebObjects framework,
that your component's not to
be synchronized automatically.
Once you go to manual synchronization,
though,
you need to perform the pushing and
pulling of the attributes between
the parent and the child yourself.
I mean, that's where the value for
binding method comes in.
Okay, so in this case,
you pass the value for binding method,
the name of the attribute
in the WAD file,
in this case it's a string,
and it will return the
parent's bound attribute,
and you can perform some operation on it.
Once you go to this manual
synchronization and you start
using the value for binding,
you don't really need to have
a declared instance variable in
your child component anymore.
So, something to think about.
The other thing is you need a way to get
values back into the parent sometime.
So in this case,
you probably don't want to do it,
but if you wanted to have that beautified
string passed back into the parent,
you'd use a set value for binding method.
And that's how you manually
push the values back from
the child into the parent.
Basically what you do is you just pass
it the value and the name of the binding.
Another thing to consider is if
you're going to pass into the child
something like an EO or a dictionary
and that child component is going
to be doing operations on that
object, whatever it is,
maybe you're going to call,
display all of its attributes.
In the case we have here,
maybe you're calling attributes
on it 20 times to display name,
address, city, state.
And in this example here,
what would happen is you'd be calling
value for binding multiple times,
right?
Once for every time the
woe string fires off.
Which probably isn't too
expensive on its own,
but if on the other side
there's an accessor method with
some kind of business logic,
then that's going to
start getting expensive.
So one thing you can do
here is cache the value.
Okay, so again,
you can declare an instance variable,
do a value for binding,
check to see if it's null.
If it's not null,
you go ahead and load the value in and
then cache it in the child component.
If you're going to do that, of course,
you want to remember to reset
the value at the end of the
current request response loop.
Append to response is a
good place to do that.
And then I thought I'd
throw this in as well,
we're on the subject of
manual synchronization,
is the idea of caret notation.
If all you have are wrapper
methods for value for binding
and set value for binding,
and all they're doing is
calling those two methods,
you can shorten this by using
what's called caret notation.
in the bindings in the child.
Okay, so this saves you having to have
these wrapper methods there and
all the overhead those will incur.
[Transcript missing]
But there's also this kind of formalized
notion of a stateless component
in WebObjects where if you declare
your component to be stateless,
there will only be one shared
instance of that component
for all your user sessions.
Or if you're running in a
multi-threaded environment,
there will be a pool of these components.
The benefit here, though,
is that WebObjects at runtime doesn't
have to keep creating new instances
and garbage collecting these.
It doesn't have to incur
the overhead for doing that.
So it becomes very efficient.
So this is kind of like the
best way to create the most
efficient reusable component.
It's important to note that you can have
instance variables in these stateless
components for doing local things,
but the state is not guaranteed
to be valid beyond the current
phase of the request response loop.
So you want to consider that.
So to make the component stateless,
you basically implement a method
called isStatelessReturnTrue,
automatically your component stateless.
You want to remember to implement a
reset method and clear out or null
out any instance variables you have in
that component so you don't have any
side effects in other sessions that
are going to access that component.
And one thing I discovered as well is
once you create a stateless component,
it automatically uses
manual synchronization.
So if you just go ahead and
make a component stateless
that wasn't stateless before,
you probably won't synchronize
any of your bindings.
You're going to have to
do call value for binding,
set value for binding.
Another thing I learned as
well is if you're going to
use a stateless component,
all the components,
child components of that,
need to be stateless as well.
Okay, so if we're going to get into
stateless components or even
stateful components sometimes,
it's nice to have some flexibility
to be able to communicate and
share state outside the component.
You might have multiple components
that need to share some data and
just basically be able to access
data outside of the component
itself and even the parent.
So one thing you might want
to do is maybe the component
needs to access the application,
some data in the application,
to configure itself.
Just an idea.
So you can,
there's a convenience method on
a component called application.
You can call value for key,
set value for key, or just call,
do a cast and call some
method on application.
You need to remember though,
you might need a lock if
you're running multi-threaded.
Anytime you go outside your
session in a multi-threaded app,
you're probably not thread safe.
So, kind of remember that.
Another idea is if you have
two components that need to
share some kind of state,
you can set up an instance variable in
the parent and access it that way using
the parent method in the component.
Yet another idea that I've seen
used a lot is to use some shared
state and session dictionary.
When you do this,
you kind of want to be careful to
have some namespace considerations
because it is a shared dictionary
between all the pages and it's
possible to get the wrong values back.
Another thing I've seen done that's
kind of neat is the idea of this user
info dictionary and the request object.
The request object,
once it comes in in the current request,
is usually pretty much intact.
Every single component has access to it,
so you can kind of move information
around through that user info dictionary
and share information that way.
Kind of a more stealthy
way of doing things.
The way you'd access it
is through the context,
typically.
Context, you can access the request,
and then from the request you can
get to the user info dictionary.
Okay, with that,
I'm going to ask Bob Frank to come
up and give you some demos and
talk about WoW component content,
WoW switch component,
and some of the cool dynamic
features of reusable components.
Thank you, Kelly.
I think I get to talk about what
are probably two of the least
understood reusable components
that ship with WebObjects:
WoSwitch component and
WoComponent content.
I also think I get to do the
neatest demo of this presentation.
WoSwitch component, hold on, let's see.
[Transcript missing]
The next component I'm
going to be talking about,
I think this is very hard
to get your brain around.
It's going to be a lot
easier to see in the demo.
Woe component content allows
you to take a component and
create a wrapper component.
So that way you could have a
All of your components designed
for their functionality and
a set of wrapper components
designed for their user interface.
And I'm going to take Scott's
application and wrap it with some
user interface and you'll see
that you can put them together.
Using a combination of
WoW Switch component and
WoW component content,
you could easily take a very small
set of components that provide a look
and feel for your entire site or a
combination of sets of looks and feels
for your entire site and on the fly,
at run time, swap them in and out.
What you see here on this screen
is actually a very simple search
field wrapped by a wrapper.
And that wrapper is going
to actually provide the rest
of the body for the page.
And the search field is going to get
dropped into the wrapper component,
which looks like this.
When you have a WoW component content,
you can actually add a
component to the page.
So if you have a WoW component content,
the content that you have
wrapped gets dropped in and in
Web Object Builder will be represented
by a small little placeholder.
Since it doesn't know what you're
wrapping and it doesn't know
what it's going to look like,
it just has this placeholder.
In fact, let's see how that works.
Can we go over to the demo machine?
Let me clean up a few things.
I have a few things
that I have pre-built.
I love NT.
We have a small framework
with a few wrapper components
that I have already built.
In order to use it, I have to add my
framework to the project.
And since I'm adding a framework
before we can go ahead and run,
I'm going to have to recompile.
Just to show you that
it's the same application,
let me add a simple wrapper to
the components that Kelly wrote.
I'm going to center this so
it looks better with mine.
And add the Yaya wrapper.
It may look familiar to you.
Oh, and save.
may look, the wrapper that we're using
may look a little bit familiar.
I hope.
[Transcript missing]
Let's say, for instance,
you actually want to know
how to do what I just did.
If you have a variety
of people working on
Your user interface.
And you want to go ahead and
take their completed page and,
well, gee, this looks like a really good.
Why don't we go ahead
and use a page here.
and say these are the very expensive
graphic designers that we hired.
And create a component
and simply take a look at the
HTML that is in the blank component.
Don't care about any of it at all.
Delete that and paste in the
HTML that you've been provided.
Don't forget to save.
And
When you're done,
even with a complicated web page,
WebObjectBuilder does a fairly
good job at rendering it.
And specifically, I'm going to go...
Let's take a look at this table right
here and insert my WoE component content.
[Transcript missing]
At this point,
I need to drop in a few pieces of code.
And don't worry,
I'm not going to do anything
magical behind the scenes,
but I will show you the
finished product first,
and then go ahead and explain
the few pieces that I have done.
[Transcript missing]
and I will be presenting the next
session on the WOComponent content that
allows us to switch between various
wrappers that we have and go ahead and
Use a pull-down, a woe switch right here,
a woe pop-up list that
Since I added some classes,
we have to recompile.
But that is all that's involved
in taking an HTML page,
dropping in some component content,
and making it into a wrapper.
Hopefully,
this will be nice to me this morning.
The default page that
comes up has no wrapper.
Down at the bottom here,
we have a variety of wrappers.
The one piece of magic that isn't really
that magical that I added is this class,
dynamicwrapper.java.
And all it really does for the
application is it looks for the name
of the wrapper that I want to use.
Using that action method that
I had bound in that form,
I was setting the name of
the wrapper into the session,
and we were pulling out here.
One nifty little piece of code that
I added just last night was the ability
to take the value from your URL.
and this is just done
using form value for key.
Nothing very special at all.
And that is the entire
demo of how to combine
WoW Switch Component and WoW Wrapper.
Can I go back to the presentation?
One last thought on creating reusable
components and reusable toolkits in
general is there's a few pieces of
code that you saw me copy and paste.
There are a large amount of things
that you can do for yourself
to make reusable components
even more reusable for yourself.
One of the things that
I like to do is have a copy,
a personal copy of a subclass
of WoW component that has a
variety of convenience methods.
Everybody has certain things that
you're going to find yourself
re-implementing time and time again.
You can carry this around with you,
even subclassing an
application or session,
to provide convenience
methods that you know will be
available for you everywhere.
For example, if you want to go
through your application,
a common example would be the ability
to set certain pages to expire and
set certain pages not to expire.
If you've got customer data that
you don't want the browser to cache,
you could set it on a page-by-page basis.
There's a few other simple examples.
Going back to the previous page,
these are convenient things
that over time I've found that
are re-implemented frequently.
This is a...
At this point,
I'd like to call back Kelly on stage
and have him talk some more about
additional reusable components.
Okay,
I'm going to finish this up with some
tips on performance and debugging and
get into some ideas on some design ideas.
Debugging.
Of course we've got GDB if
you're doing Objective-C,
JDB if you're doing...
If you are going to use Java,
make sure you enable GDB and you also
have to set other Java tool flags equal
-g in your makefile.preamble if you want
to be able to access local variables.
My favorite: System.out.println.
Seems like half my code these
days is System.out.println.
There's also LogString,
which is kind of a platform-independent
way to do logging in web objects.
And then there's DebugString that works
in conjunction with WoDebugEnabled,
so you can set this flag at runtime and
turn your debugging on and off at will.
Another technique I use if I have
deeply nested components or very
complex components is to use comments to
isolate different portions of the HTML.
If I'm getting some kind of
really weird browser output,
sometimes it's nice to be able to go
in and just comment out sections and
kind of isolate where the problem is.
Another thing that I found when I was
researching this session is WoDebug.
It's basically a binding attribute
that you can add to any component,
whether it's a reusable
component or a dynamic element.
Essentially what you do is either
in the WAD file or in the inspector,
just add this attribute, set it to yes,
and what it'll do for you is log on
the console all of the synchronizations
between the parent and the child.
It's a very simple thing.
It's a very useful feature to have.
You can see the WAD file down there.
You can actually see the
attribute on the child side,
the attribute on the parent side.
It actually shows you the values that
it's pushing and pulling both ways.
It's a very useful thing to have,
to know about.
Performance Tips The first two
things we already really covered:
Disabled binding synchronization
of stateless components.
I wanted to put them on here just kind
of check off things to think about when
you're looking at performance issues.
The other one that's kind of obvious
is component definition caching.
By default it's turned off.
So when you're in development mode,
if you make changes to your WAD file or
make changes to your component template,
WebObjects will pick those
changes up without you having
to restart the application,
which is kind of a nice feature.
But when you go to deploy,
you want to set "wo caching enabled"
to "yes" on the command line,
or set the method,
which I think is an application method,
to "true."
That'll make your application
run a little bit faster.
Although, once WebObjects determines that
the component hasn't changed,
it doesn't really go and reparse
it every single time anyway.
But it does check to see if
the files changed on disk,
so there is a little bit of overhead.
Disable various debugging modes.
You know, you want to make sure your
console logging's off.
That really gets expensive.
If you forget to turn that stuff off,
you don't realize it's
spewing all that stuff.
We had a couple good sessions that
went into performance on WebObjects,
and I know they covered
the WoEvent logging stuff.
That's something to really consider
using when you're evaluating
performance of your components.
I got an example of a URL for
getting to the setup page.
It's really intuitive to use.
Maybe not so easy to
interpret the results,
but it is pretty nifty to have.
Pitfalls to avoid.
These are things that I've run into and
a lot of developers that I've worked
with have run into several times.
I thought I'd list here.
The first one, take values from request
isn't always invoked.
So take values from request is
only invoked if there are form
values coming in in the request.
So for example,
the initial URL you submit to a
WebObjects app that starts your session,
there is no take values from request
method invoked on your component.
So if you put logic in there
thinking that it's going to happen,
you might want to think twice about that.
Initializing variables too early,
especially if you're using
automatic component synchronization.
You might initialize a variable
that's part of a binding attribute
in maybe a constructor or something
just to have it overwritten by
the synchronization process.
So it's best to kind of initialize
your variables on a lazy basis.
Initialize them when you need them.
Returning self or this
from child components,
pretty common mistake.
Basically,
nothing will crash when you do that,
but what will happen is, for example,
you'll all of a sudden just get your
child component displayed in your
browser and your main page is gone.
That's pretty easy to fix.
You typically want to return
null or return some new
page from an action method.
[Transcript missing]
Another thing, it's not too common,
but you can get yourself
into these retain cycles,
which are essentially circular
references between objects.
For instance, if you try and store
the session in a page,
or you try and store the
application in a page,
what will happen is,
since these objects are
referencing each other,
they might not get garbage
collected at the end of whatever
time it is to get rid of them.
At the end of the request response
cycle or the end of the session,
you'll start getting memory leaks.
It's best not to do that.
convenience methods and components for
like application and session and parent,
things like that,
so you don't really need to store
that kind of stuff in your components.
A few design issues to consider
when building components.
My favorite really is to take
a building block approach.
Start with really small components,
build those into bigger components,
and then build those into
yet bigger components.
I mean, it really is kind of a cool way
to build UI and really reusable.
And with the ability to create
very efficient components with
some of the things we talked about,
you can really pull it off and
do some kind of cool stuff.
A couple questions to ask yourself
when you design your component.
Is the component designed to
be reused across applications?
Not everybody is going to use reusable
components in more than one application.
If you are,
you might want to consider having
features in the reusable component
to turn different things on and
off to allow the programmer to
control how it's going to behave.
Decide how you want to manage state.
You want to really think about that.
Do you want to pass everything
into the bindings or just do it?
I think you're right.
You want to use some kind
of shared state idea.
Another thing to consider
is binding validations.
If other people are going to be
using your reusable components,
there is the API validation
feature in WebObjects Builder.
I wanted to point out that it's
a design time only error check.
So if you validate the rules
on your component at runtime,
you're not going to know the difference.
I don't know if you've ever noticed,
but on dynamic elements,
if you don't do the bindings right
or if you leave a binding out,
you'll get a runtime exception.
You might want to provide that
sort of error checking on your own
in your own reusable components.
There's a couple methods you can call:
canGetValueForBinding,
canSetValueForBinding.
So, if it's required that the developer
bind an attribute that the child
can set back in the parent,
you might want to make these,
call these methods and then raise
some kind of runtime exception if
they don't return the right value.
And then namespace conflicts.
If you're creating frameworks
of reusable components,
you want to be, you know,
give them some kind of unique
names so they don't conflict with
the components in your current
application or in other frameworks.
That's about it.
That's what I've got.
Q&A.
Thanks.